here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom governments in the UK
US and Australia have asked Facebook in
an open letter to roll back plans to
bring end-to-end encryption to all of
its platforms Google is showing off
stunning new augmented reality features
coming to web mobile apps soon
after analyzing a database containing
three billion leaked credentials from
security breaches the Microsoft threat
research team determined that more than
forty four million user accounts had a
serious security problem we'll tell you
what you need to know and Intel is
making lidar affordable with a new
palm-sized
camera stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show this is the
category 5.2 the news we're covering the
week stop text image with a slight linux
bias i'm sasha Rickman joined this week
by jeff weston and robbie ferguson all
right here's some quick honorable
mentions this week
Larry Page and Sergey Brin cofounders of
Google have stepped down from their
positions as its CEO and president
respectively with immediate effect at
its parent company of alphabet Inc
however both will continue their
involvement as co-founders shareholders
and members of alphabets Board of
Directors going forward sundar pichai
Google's chief executive will become the
CEO of both Google and alphabet he will
assume the role of managing alphabets
investments in its portfolio of other
bets in areas including self-driving
cars and life sciences besides this he
will also remain a member of alphabets
board of director directors the stepping
down of page and Brin represents the end
of an era for Google that was founded by
both in 1998 while there are PhD
students at Stanford University despite
not holding important management roles
at alphabet the two plan to continue
talking with pachai regularly and
Mexican cops have pre-ordered a fleet of
cyber trucks having pre-ordered 15 Tesla
cyber trucks that makes the Mexican city
of San Luis Potosi Potosi the second to
share plans to put police officers and
cyber trucks following Dubai's
announcement a couple weeks back thus
and Luis Potosi government is reportedly
interested in replacing its internal
combustion engine vehicles with the
truck to cut down on maintenance costs
and save money in long run Adrian espera
Cardenas mayor of San Luis Potosi
described the purchase as quote common
sense
end quote he added that the city will
also use some of the 15 trucks for tasks
like picking up trash around the city
and would be simple for the city to
reverse course if it changes its mind
because all it takes to preorder a truck
is a fully refundable $100 deposit that
way if the police force gets cold feet
and it thinks that the trucks are not
quite meatball proof windows it could
still completely black out before
actually buying Tesla's trucks let's get
into the top stories we're following
this week governments in the UK US and
Australia have asked Facebook in an open
letter to roll back plans to bring
end-to-end encryption to all of its
platforms Facebook who has been the
center of many privacy scandals
responds that everyone has the right to
a private conversation it's the latest
in a battle between privacy and safety
you which has been played out between
governments and tech firms ever since
digital communication became mass market
end-to-end encryption is a secure way of
sending information so that only the
intended receiver can read it the
information is encrypted while it is
still in the sender's device and is only
decrypted when it reaches the person
intended nobody not even the platform
owner has the keys to unlock it the UK
and the US have just signed a historic
agreement to give each other much faster
access to private conversations cutting
down the time from a month's her years
to weeks weeks or days but that
agreement could potentially be rendered
a bit useless if the messages are
encrypted setting up a government
backdoor is not the answer either as
Amnesty International pointed out quote
proposals for a backdoor have repeatedly
been shown to be unworkable there is no
middle ground if law enforcement is
allowed to circumvent encryption then
anybody can end quote professor Alan
Woodward a security expert at the
University of Surrey and a consultant to
Europe all Europol gave a good analogy
when he said quote a backdoor is rather
like leaving a key under the mat once
somebody knows it's there anyone can
walk in and quote hmm so interesting
story I really think that this is gonna
sound weird okay so I know that emails
are not private and I assume that
Facebook messages are not private so I
don't think that they should be they
should not be private they're not
private it's about encryption and so
right I think the the issue in this case
is the fact that when there is legal
proceedings going on and the police are
doing investigations and a lot of times
it could be a national security issue it
could be a you know a police
investigation that is about a safety or
like drug runners or whatever the fact
that the police need to be able to
access those devices I mean we saw this
a couple years ago with Apple and their
security needing the fingerprints and
unless you had you know the person's
thumbprint you couldn't get past that
yeah encryption all that kind of stuff
and so there's always been this battle
on the encryption front of can
law-enforcement get access to it and
what is acceptable and what is not and
so I mean at the beginning there was
this idea of yes for sure we could you
know I think it's makes sense for law
enforcement to have encryption but then
as soon as you get things like you know
the Edward Snowden and all of that kind
of breach that's coming out through that
that scandal you're you have people go
on hold on we can't trust you with that
information we can't trust you to follow
the core process properly where you're
supposed to go to a judge now you're
bypassing that with you know fake
warrants to make it happen I think
that's how it played out if my memory
serves and so now people are going I
don't think we can trust you with the
encryption you know and it's I mean this
story is an interesting point because
you're right if you do give that access
then anybody has access as long as they
can get to that if they know the key so
here's where the tricky thing is in my
mind and maybe I'm oversimplifying it
but when I first had a phone it was on a
party-line there was no privacy I don't
understand what little bit different now
all the kids listening tonight we just
dated ourselves is why one person needs
to have another conversation with
another person and have it completely
locked down I feel like that was never a
thing who never had that but you also
didn't use your party line for you know
international terrorism right and if I
were to be using my party line for
international terrorism I'd want it to
be encrypted so I don't think it should
yeah no I understand yes I mean it
really comes down to though and I hear
this argument all the time if you're not
doing anything wrong why do you care yes
and I get that argument
it makes sense if you're not doing
anything why should you care but the
fact is there's still the potential that
you might not be doing anything wrong
but now if somebody decides you they're
going to investigate you anything that
you're doing is no longer going to be
protected but if I work under the
assumption that nothing is private I'm
not gonna do anything in these weird
realms that I would hope to stay private
right but where is that line and I think
that's what this story comes to is where
is the line between acceptable and I
don't want to say intrusion but that
really is what it comes down to if
you're going to break the encryption it
is an element of intrusion might be for
good means but where is that acceptable
line between intrusion and privacy and
you know I don't know if there's a safe
answer because you're always gonna have
two sides of the story you're gonna have
the the privacy side and you're gonna
have the law enforcement side and then
there's gonna be people in the middle
going and I don't know it's it's
interesting to watch how this is playing
on the courts and I think where it's
going to really come to head and you're
gonna start seeing movement in a
definitive way is in the European courts
because of all of the legislation that
they putting in place I think that's
where if there's going to be a
breakthrough that allows for that
healthy balance I think Europe is where
you're gonna see it all right
Google is showing off stunning new
augmented reality features coming to web
and mobile apps soon google has been
quietly working to improve at augmented
reality platform our core since its
official launch early last year now the
company says it's ready to unveil some
of the next-generation upgrades to death
detection and physics that they've
achieved promising to make AR
experiences seem much more realistic in
the near future the upgrades part of our
course all new all new depth API will
soon allow developers to perform what's
known as occlusion which is when an
artificial object can be blocked from
view by real-world objects in a scene
place a virtual cat in your living room
for instance and you can see it
disappear from view when you angle your
camera in a way that place is a better
table or some other object in between
the result is a more believable scene
because the depth detection going on
under the hood means that your
smartphone better understands every
object in a scene and how far apart each
object is from one another Google says
that it's able to do this through
optimizing existing software so that you
won't need to buy a new phone with a
specific sensor or a type of processor
if you have a phone that supports our
core which is pretty much every new
Android phone released in the last few
years you'll be able to access these new
features directly on the device with no
help from the Cloud Pokemon go creator
at neon tech showed off a video of
occlusion of an occlusion demo featuring
a tiny virtual Pikachu darting around an
urban Plaza dashing in between objects
and blending seamlessly in with the
environment that was in July 2018 but it
was just a video and not a demo running
on a device in real time google says the
advancements will be made available to
developers in the future after it works
more more closely with developers and
other collaborators to polish off some
of its approaches these go beyond
occlusion and into more realistic
physics and 3d mapping google has
developed a way for AAR objects to
interact with the real world more
realistically move through the
environment in a way a real-world 3d
object would and interact with services
like you might expect physical matter
would the company doesn't have a
timeline for when it does expect to
release this toolset more broadly but
it's likely these capabilities will be
showing up in apps and a our web
experiences sometime next year this is
cool this is cool but I I mean as you're
reading the story I'm going what little
world would I use this for but I think
this can take things like AR games yeah
to a whole new level and I can also see
this being the beginnings of a whole new
way of doing living AR visual wear right
so for instance I mean if you go back to
that episode of
Star Trek next generation I think it the
episode was called the game where they
have that little headset and as they're
walking around there's like these balls
and you know where they're throwing the
balls into these cyclones and all that
kind of stuff
I can see this opening up the door to
having you know VR goggles that instead
of having that opaque screen having a
transparent screen so that it changes
the way you do your games so you would
really like that I think this is really
fascinating how they're moving it
forward my fear though is that you know
as humans we can't be trusted somebody's
gonna get hurt okay here's what I like
it for I like for two reasons that
immediately popped into my head one
randomly interior-design I feel like
okay you can easily then show somebody
what their space could look like well
you could do that now though yeah but it
would be easier not with the occlusion
though yeah and I think therapy for
people with phobias or PTSD I think that
would work that's an interesting concept
I haven't thought about that one yeah
and also games that's the way it's gonna
go initially is you know people are
gonna go how can we build this into
games yeah but at the same time I mean
that's interesting about mobility issues
this does open a whole new realm of how
does that play into say urban planning
right and if you develop an AI map and
you look at it going okay you know how
would how would people interact with
this what would be the movement like
take pics it's like Times Square yeah
like how you know if this happened how
would that impact traffic and and
watching these AI people walk around by
throwing an object in there or if you
just place the I mean I realized it's
kind of backwards use of it but it'd be
interesting to see from a traffic model
standpoint or a construction model the
impact that this would have you know
could change the way we do the world
we agree we've got to take a quick break
the cryptic corner and it more of this
week's top tech stories are coming up
don't go anywhere
[Music]
you
welcome back to the crypto corner
another week has flown by not many
changes within the price of the market
cap of our industry still around to Ana
billion market share of Bitcoin is
around 66% so not many changes there but
as usual a lot of things to report about
and so the first big one is if you're
upgrading this weekend to Istanbul which
means bit more performant cheaper and a
bit more resilient but it's not the big
upgrade to a theorem 2.0 that will come
hopefully beginning of next year next
one is life on the light Khan Foundation
created a trust fund to address privacy
issues by using the member wendel
protocol which is great news because
that's exactly what we also need in the
Bitcoin protocol an interesting
statistic is decentralized finance or as
they say it in modern English defy on
the field on the theorem network that
was in 1997 around 10 million u.s.
dollars last month it was 650 million so
an exponential growth in decentralized
finance on the theorem blockchain the
650 million by the way it's equivalent
to around 2% of all earth available in
the market so it's significant then the
voice network which is in Euros your EOS
based media platform competitor there
were to be compared to Facebook and so
on they will launch the better version
soon that's interesting because block 1
that is the company behind this system
they generated 4 billion US dollars
during the ico of AOS so they've got a
lot of money that they cancel behind
this year and last but not least in the
news section is British Virgin Islands
they announced that they're converting
the us-backed dollar to a digital
currency so that's the next one that
country that will have their currency on
a blockchain now subject of the week is
exchange and why in exchange because you
can make a lot of mistakes there if you
don't choose the right exchange and
there are four things that you have to
be really careful with when choosing an
exchange first is it a regulated
exchange and to give you an example
there's an exchange called ID X I Dax
that's based in Mongolia so you know
that if something happens there you have
got no chance in recovering your money I
assume that hmm
and but that you have to be careful that
but every other exchange that you have
got at least a chance to talk to
somebody and that's usually the case
with regulated exchanges second is is it
the KYC ml exchange so are they asking
you for the passport picture don't send
those things to companies or exchanges
or website you've never heard of or you
don't have any idea who is sitting
behind that exchange there because you
never know what they're going to do with
your passport or your driver's license
what are they going to do with your data
is it safely stored you don't know that
so make sure that you have got an answer
to that question
third is so called fake trading or
washed trading which is forbidden in the
US and in Europe but it's allowed in
Asia and that means that the exchange is
faking trade volume they're saying that
around 90 percent of bitcoins volume
that you see on coin market cap it's
around 1 billion US dollars in reality
it's only around 100 million so make
sure that there's enough liquidity of
your token or coin then last is the fees
just be careful with the fees check that
before you do a trade it can be up to 30
percent higher 3 0%
if you make a mistake so those are the
four points need to consider when
choosing the right exchange for your
token and that's that's for me so I wish
a great week and see you next week
thanks for watching thanks Robert
just a reminder this is not financial
advice we're just sharing what's
happening in the crypto market the
Microsoft threat research team analyzed
billions of login credentials that had
been leaked following security breaches
these came from multiple sources
including law enforcement and publicly
accessible databases considering the
data breaches are known to have exposed
4.1 billion records in the first six
months of 2019 alone there's obviously
plenty of this kind of credential data
floating around and plenty that is
traded across dark web markets security
researchers analyzed this breach data
and by doing so it's possible to get an
idea of the most commonly reused and
therefore insecure passwords the
Microsoft identity threat research team
was also looking for these compromised
credentials to cross-check against the
Microsoft use your ecosystem across just
the first three months of 2019 Microsoft
found some 44 million accounts that were
reusing passwords found within those
breached credential databases you might
think that 44 million reuse passwords
out of more than 3 billion breached
credentials isn't too bad a percentage
unless you're one of those as sewer ad
or Microsoft account holders with the
password problem of course it's it's
dangerous to think that you are safe
just because you don't use any of the
headline passwords mentioned in the most
reused passwords list so that regular
regularly appears online as threat
actors use a variety of techniques to
reveal login credentials if one of your
passwords turns up in a breach database
and you use it to access your email
account for example it's often game over
as far as your security is concerned
Microsoft warns about how this data is
commonly used in what's known as a
breach replay attack quote once a three
actor gets ahold of spilled credentials
or credentials in the wild they can try
to execute a breach free play attack in
this attack the actor tries it tries out
the same credentials on different
services service accounts to see if
there's a match and hope as far as the
leaked credentials that the threat
research team found during this analysis
are concerned
Microsoft has confirmed that consumers
need to take quote no additional action
end quote as they are already forced the
password reset so what can we do to
protect our accounts the report goes on
to say quote our numbers show that 99.9%
of identity attacks have inserted by
turning on multi-factor authentication
and quote Wow 99.9% yet have been
thwarted so we know I am NOT the best of
my passwords I know that you're learning
I'm learning and I know I would never
have known how bad I was if not for the
show but now I know I need multi-factor
authentication I'm going to need it
because I know that even if I think I
have the safest password out there
there's a computer out there that's just
picking away and will one day figure it
out well do you know what's neat about
multi-factor authentication sash's that
even if you have a weak password yeah if
you have MFA or 2fa whatever you want to
call it then
you're much more protected because they
only have that one factor they only have
the password well they also need your
phone or your SMS or whatever else I can
remember in some regards absolutely one
site yes that's fine with me
yeah you don't want to repeat passwords
across multiple so I needed a few were
to repeat password and have multi-factor
authentication you'd be okay I mean you
don't want to but you'd be okay yeah I
mean it is concerning that people still
continue to use the same password but I
would venture to guess that almost every
one of those people do not have some
sort of a password
keeper software I would say you're wrong
and here's why I know because I am one
of those people so host maybe it's just
a password because it's easy to remember
it's poor practice though maybe it's
just bad so here's what happens is I try
a password and it says wrong password or
I try password it says your passwords
expired you have to come up with a new
password and I just in a rush put in a
password that I know you know and then I
think I'll come back to that later and
I'll change it yeah you never do I don't
I have I have a problem well it is the
first step right passwords anonymous
okay pause pause I use a password
generator which I have done which has
rendered my laptop useless in this
moment no that was you that was okay but
like I use a password generator and this
is big long string of characters that I
just copy/paste yeah two things right
which is great what a wonderful world as
far as security goes if none of the
users know their passwords think about
that you think that sounds crazy but
that is the perfect scenario yeah if I
fire a staff member and they because
they've compromised data or they've done
something wrong I don't want them to be
able to walk away with passwords that
they remember I promise you I don't know
any of my own personal passwords right
now that's great ask your password on my
password that's the way it should be yes
absolutely
now but then there is the scenario that
you've encountered Sasha where your
Chromebook you have to log into your
Chromebook so you have to know your
chrome password which is your Google
password right so the trick is is to
have a simple enough password that you
remember so I use password recipes not
passwords so you think about a recipe
we've talked about that on the show
before and I'll talk about it again but
knowing your recipe you're able to punch
in your password so my password is like
this big long thing because it's like
it's like all these different factors
for a recipe for my password and so it's
like a hacker could never figure it out
it's all kinds of words and punctuation
z' and everything else but i remember it
because i know the recipe right and then
you and then in addition to that I have
multi-factor authentication enabled on
my Google account so even though I have
a password that I'm entering in because
I remember the recipe so think about
this what if that computer had a key
logger what if I was logging into my
Google account to check my gmail from a
library computer where someone says it
has installed a key logger now they know
my password so now do they have access
to my Google account no they don't have
my phone because I've got multi-factor
authentication enabled so every time I
try to an a log into my Google account
or my Chromebook it pops up on my phone
do you want to authorize this yes it's a
simple click yes absolutely you need to
enable that I want I want that now yeah
I will say as far as the key logger
thing goes that I would never fall
victim to that because I don't know my
password and I just copy/paste so they
would only be locking the coffee and but
there are clipboard loggers as well
[Music]
Asian that's for the whip I wish there
was a way and I suppose in theory it
could be done but I wish when there was
a data breach for a company that there
would be a way to purge the passwords
and ensure that your password keeper
software would prevent you from ever
using that again like I know with mine I
I get a we're almost there Jeff I know
but I like I know for mine I get alerts
that runs an audit of all my passwords
because there's point I'm now up over
probably 250 different passwords and
it's like by the way you view you've
reused this a couple times
and when I look at its like oh that's a
sight I haven't logged into in 10 years
like clearly yeah I don't yeah use it
but it's the same password that you're
using on something that you use every
day which is the scary thing yeah
exactly yeah but it'd be nice if that's
the ones can wipe them out and never
allow you to use it again yeah that
comes down to common sense though I know
and what we are at like with Mikey so my
ki for example with LastPass with have I
been owned as examples google chrome now
features that built-in when passwords
that you use have been compromised you
receive alerts that'll that let you know
and in fact I I recently received an
alert that one of my passwords was
compromised I recognized it because it
said this is your password and so oh
yeah my password has been compromised so
what did I do
I did dump of my LastPass password
database and I searched for that
password and I found all of the sites
that I use that I had stupidly shared
the same password with because it was
one of my plaintext passwords right and
I had found about maybe six or seven
sites where I had used this password
from years ago and so I went through and
I went through check check check check
check and I changed the password on
every single one of those sites to a
nice strong password yes so now whether
it was compromised or not that password
is now secure what I am NOT able to
protect against is the fact that the
data that they were able to accumulate
during that breach they now have access
to so that could be that could be the
phone call that comes in and says hi
we're calling from Microsoft and we're
looking at your computer like that could
be any kind of phishing scam spear
phishing scam whatever it may be because
they now have data on me however my
password is no longer an issue so they
can't get access to my accounts that
actually helps me to know that you've
actually had the same problem I have
everyone does censure but the thing is
is that you've got to take action yeah
so where I receive the notification that
my password has been compromised
I found the six other sites that
use that password because I had shared
that password with other sites and I
changed the password right and what you
said is very crucial because in your
news story Sasha you said that they're
now using the compromised data in order
to do a secondary attack yes to see if
maybe that password that you used on
MySpace way back in the day might be the
same password that you're now using on
Facebook yeah so they try those things
they attack those things and you would
be none the wiser until finally they get
in and guess what they do they change
your password and then you can't access
your account and so you've got to be
proactive I will say like the password
generators that pass that generate these
really strong awesome passwords they're
amazing yeah but I think every single
person has generated their own password
that they're super proud of and they
kind of feel a little bit of attachment
to all right and then you kind of want
to use it but you shouldn't yeah and I
think the the the thing that we hesitate
with is that these big long passwords
that are 64 characters long how will I
ever remember that and the key point is
you don't need to know it you don't need
to remember it you need to have a
password manager that is able to input
that into the login form so that it will
get you into the system and you never
need to know that password exact the key
planet that's it no I know we have to
move on yeah one quick thought with this
I mean I'm thinking about what you're
saying Robby about the the you replay
attacks where they're checking out
other's sites yeah yeah and the fact
that you have to factor authentication
so take for instance Facebook you can
have your two-factor authentication
where as if they get in they change the
password but they can also now change
the cellphone that you use for your
two-factor authentication so once
they're in then they can now change that
cell that number so that when you
anything I'm locked out Jeff we're
talking about social media here what
about banking well exactly
are the funds gonna go that they now
have access to right right so is there a
way and maybe they're doing this already
but I'm thinking for a sophisticated web
service whether it be banking whatever
is there a way for them to put in almost
three factor authentication with some
smart trends for instance they recognize
that normally you log in from an IP
address that's in a specific area of the
country suddenly
you log in with your password from an IP
address totally somewhere else and then
they instantly go to change your phone
number would the site go you're in
that's not you we're locking you out
well this is exactly why we use the term
multi-factor authentication not
necessarily two-factor authentication
right so multi-factor authentication
could be five factors right when I log
in if I want to remote into the studio
from home there are three or four
factors I think so it's multi-factor
authentication anyway so it's not
two-factor authentication
it takes four factors in order for me to
get in to the studio so yeah there's the
but as far as the lock downs go I mean
that's firewalling that's that's a whole
other can of worms yeah new story next
week intel is adding a tiny lidar sensor
to its realsense range claiming the
intel realsense lie doc lidar camera l5
one five is the world's smallest laser
rangefinder not to mention one of the
most affordable taking technology
familiar from autonomous cars and
robotics the l5 one 5 then packages it
down into a small enough form factor
that it could allow compact smart
devices to scan the world in 3d lidar
works by using a rapidly scanning laser
bouncing points of light off surrounding
objects by measuring the time taken for
that light to reflect back it can create
a 3d map or a point cloud of the world
around that sensor that accuracy has
made it the centerpiece of many
self-driving project self-driving car
projects among other fields
traditionally though lidar has
been hamstrung by two key factors size
and price early lidar sensors
particularly those with suitable range
for automotive applications have been
huge like a spinning trashcan mounted on
top of the vehicle's roof
they've also cost tens of thousands of
dollars or more Intel's ll5 one five
taps into the growing category of
solid-state light are however and it's
cheap enough at arriving just at $349
Wow the chip maker developed its own
tiny micro electromechanical system or a
MEMS mirror that allows the laser to
skin at the scene but at reduced power
despite requiring less than 3.5 watts
intel says that the l5 1/5 can still
track 3d objects at a range of up to 30
feet to add over there 23 million
accurate depth pixels per second with a
depth resolution of 1024 by 768 at 30
frames per second arguably more exciting
though is the potential for new
applications and new users where a
lighter has traditionally been out of
reach smoothing that transition is the
fact that the l5 1/5 uses the same
realsense sdk 2.0 as intel's other
current realsense cameras released under
an open-source license and compatible
with Windows Linux Android and Mac OS
along with multiple platforms including
unity unreal and even Python unreal oh
man do you guys remember the first time
that we heard of lidar yes the monkey
Kingdom yes a big let the lost city of
the monkey bar right oh the monkey god
that's right not monkey Kingdom yes the
plains most distinctive feature features
are two struts or booms that extend
behind the wings once a cheerful red and
white the paint job on this plane was
full of patches and strips that have
peeled off and an ugly streak of oil ran
down the fuselage from the forward
engine
big green lidar box almost filled the
interior of the plane think about the
size of this thing
right pretty sophisticated line yeah
I'm not on this sleek advanced yeah this
sleek advanced and costly piece of
technology so top secret that it had to
be guarded by soldiers was being slept
around in a shabby flying tin can or so
it seemed to my in expert eye that's
Douglas Preston from the lost city of
the monkey god he was here on the show
to talk about that my all-time favorite
episode yeah
I don't know Jeff season any it feels
like it was just go to our website
category 5 TV click on search and click
on lost city of the monkey god you'll
find it which first made us excited
about lidar I think so absolutely this
story technology brings light our to us
right this was exciting that it existed
and that it was capable and useful in
real world applications but what I'm
saying is like this is Douglas Preston
went to the city of the monkey god with
a Plane full of lidar technology and now
it's fitting in something that's like 60
millimeters right right what can you use
that for I wonder they are 3d movies 3d
movies either way we have an interactive
in 3d movies 3d movies could you imagine
no why can't an action take for instance
like an Avengers movie but it's filmed
with 3d lidar technology so not only can
even watch it high but you're sitting
there going hold on Oh check out the
other side of that fight ok that would
be cool combine that with the technology
that Android is praying about that
allows things to go behind other objects
right and now we've got lidar to show us
those objects in 3d space
remember we had the story with the cane
that that like was a smile that could
have a conversation with you about what
was around what if that cane had lidar
on it
I mean who make it that much more
cartoon to what obstacles are in the way
so could this be something I mean we've
gone from mega server that fills a room
to something that fills a box to
something that fits in the pocket now
we've got lidar that fills a plane that
now fills like a 62 millimeter device
and now can it fit into my optics for
example so that I can do
augmented reality like is this
everything is getting smaller and
smaller and smaller yeah I mean the
interesting applications from a say a
security or an investigation standpoint
like could you imagine all vehicles or
cell phones whatever our clip are
equipped with lidar through this techno
and I granted this is we're talking
about this size of it yeah actually
we're probably gonna get much smaller
that's it imagine if you can get lidar
onto a cell phone yes and you get into a
car and the first thing you do when you
pull out is your ping and you lied our
the entire accident see holy cow dude
have you ever seen like the 3d version
of Google Earth like so imagine if your
phone had lined our capabilities because
that's where we're going and you could
take a picture and all of a sudden you
can put that in VR space yes Sasha you
can put on your VR headset and you can
be in that realm right see and I'm
thinking from search-and-rescue
standpoint like imagine if phones were
equipped with lidar I mean like we have
the amber alert system mm-hmm
what if knowing you know so-and-so has
been kidnapped okay okay but using a
UUID through a government database they
go boom let's run a light our skin you
know what that's all fine and good but
I'm thinking more what about family what
about people that I love that have
passed on that I can enter a virtual
reality space
and and walk into walk-in to think about
this the video of an anniversary party
or a birthday party and actually like
through VR be able to enter it because
lidar gives the capability for my VR to
be able to interact with the video in
such a way that it sees the depth and
then we integrate this capability of
things to go behind objects and things
so I can walk around alive is not alive
but a video scene yeah there's always
that like point of heartbreak when you
like for example Dave and I are
renovating his family home in
Newfoundland and there's that point
where it's a heartbreak because he has
to take down some of his old memories
like his alive childhood bedroom is is
painted in these beautiful Smurfs you
know collage oh yeah wouldn't it have
been awesome to be able to do like a
lidar and be able to be able to walk
through that yeah as opposed to just but
will light our pick up cult like I don't
think lighters well you see no no no no
no Jeff you're missing it you're
combining light our technology so depth
with the visual so you've got 360 video
plus slider right so this is all part of
the video so now not only can I look
around in VR which we can already do
okay I can already take a 360 video I
have 360 cameras here you're welcome to
borrow them and you can then look around
in VR space but with lidar I can walk
around in that VR space consider the
difference with lidar filming say going
back to the original idea that I
mentioned about movie yeah yeah like I'm
sitting here going okay throwing a VR
headset suddenly we're now in like Star
Trek holodeck realms yes well but not
interactive no not as attractive but I
mean from the standpoint of you know if
you could build like you know say you
walk around New York City and you lidar
the city yeah this is what Google is
already doing here but suddenly you now
essentially like VR tours worth you know
maybe somebody has well
issues like I can't get to New York oh
yeah thinking of my in-laws who are from
Holland yeah my mom would love to go
back to Holland but because of health
issues she can't get on the plane I love
the idea would it be to say hey mom
here's the the town you grew up and
somebody lied out at that town would you
like to VR that and actually walk around
like that would be huge ah sir yes so
cool yeah it is amazing
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight
Clinic's bias and if you appreciate what
we do become a patron at patreon.com
slash newsroom from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]